Jeffery Fulton  0:00  
All right, so tell me your name and a little bit about yourself. All right. My name is Jeffrey Fulton. I am originally from Farmville, North Carolina. I've spent the past 14 years designing. So first graphic design, so I'll start on print design, then transition into UX and product brand design as well, and trying to do a little bit of service design. Now, as far as hobbies, if I'm not sitting down playing video games, I'm probably sitting on a bicycle seat trying to call myself trying to cycle. So definitely like to get out there and get on trails and stuff like that.

Pablo Alejo  0:40  
Okay, what is your experience with workshops like service side workshops?

Jeffery Fulton  0:44  
Oh, man. So I would say fairly, fairly limited. So I haven't been to a lot of workshops where it's hands on. Okay, that makes any sense. So I think everybody's going to events and things like that where, normally somebody's doing a lot of talking, it's a lot of talking, it's a lot of Q and A stuff, but not really a lot of hands on events, where it's like, requiring, like, hey, communication, like getting together, being sociable, and trying to, like, TerraForm, in a very short time, to, you know, to try to create something. I don't think I've done that since college. Okay, yeah, all right.

Pablo Alejo  1:23  
So then my first question is, tell me about a time when two people were using the same word, but clearly meaning different things,

Jeffery Fulton  1:32  
oh, man, oh, oh boy. So I again. I'm from North Carolina. I came up here. I came to Maryland to go to school, and right before I got ready to go to school, I was living with my aunt and uncle. They lived in Baltimore County, and so they had two dogs. And part of my responsibilities, my chores, were to like to go to walk the dogs. Again, I'm in Baltimore County, right there, near Baltimore City. I remember talking to a guy yelled at me from across the street. He said, How much are those Dougs? And I was like, Yeah, I guess I have something to think about. It's probably to answer your question, but I think it ties in. I didn't understand he was saying dog. I didn't understand he was saying dog because he was saying Doug. But with that being said, I it, it was a conversation. We're just yelling back across the street for like five minutes until five I realized, like, Oh, I'm saying dog. He's saying yes, Doug. And I'm like, Oh, he means dog. And I was like, ultimately, I was like, I don't know how much they cost. I can't help you. Maybe in another fashion, again, with, you know, coming from North Carolina, Baltimore, I had to adjust to the term dummy. So, you know, Dummy is kind of looked at as like a term of in almost a term of endearment in, like, Baltimore City. But it's definitely something where it's like, if somebody calls you dummy out the blue, you're like, Excuse me. So I had to get used to that. So essentially, I think Lamar Jackson has a video about that, where he get when he got introduced to Baltimore people and they were calling him Dummy. So those are two examples, like, they definitely Okay, yeah, in those

Pablo Alejo  3:21  
when that moment happened to you, can you walk me through what that was like for you to just when you, when you, when you first couldn't understand, yeah, like, what was that moment like?

Jeffery Fulton  3:35  
There's a pause, you know, because you're trying to process in terms like, what is happening, because, clearly, because clearly, you know, like, as you know individual, you kind of have your own understanding and your own mastery of, like, the language that you speak. So when it kind of gets presented to you in like a way, different fashion, you're just like, whoa, what? Yeah, you know, and that. And again, in those two instances, it was like, you know, one was like, you know. One was just, in a way, that a word was pronounced just due to, like, you know, the regional dialect, and the other was just a, you know, okay, like, I'm I have this understand the word based off of dictionary understanding, and that person has the understanding based off of like slang, you know, off their slang mastery, and it, it stops you in your tracks because you're trying to process it. So that's my that was my first like. So that's normal happens to me first I'm like, stuck there, like my brain is trying to compete, essentially, to the understand

Pablo Alejo  4:36  
for the for the second one, the dummy one. How did you get over that? How to get over it.

Jeffery Fulton  4:42  
So like, How'd you get past? How to get past I had, luckily my cousins were local, so local to the area, so they had to fill me in on, like, what it means. So luckily, I had a, essentially a translator. I essentially had a translator to help me kind of understand, like, Oh no, no, that's not what that's not what you think it means. So it's so it's okay. You can, you know, you don't have to. You'll have to overthink it. So, thank you. That was really great. Thank you. Oh yeah, no worries

Pablo Alejo  5:18  
when you try to explain. Tell me about a time when you tried to explain a like a complex or nuanced idea, and that would kind of help unlock like a situation. Tell me about a time when that happened to you and what happened.

Jeffery Fulton  5:37  
Let's see Ashley No recently so I have been working on my portfolio, my personal portfolio, and I finally got to the point where I was having to write about a service design, my one service project design that I did do, and basically how the whole service blueprint came up and how, you know, as I was building and how it became beneficial, I was working on a engineering team, and they were building out a platform for other app teams, gets production and trying to sit there and convey the Met, trying to convey to, like, my report, you know, my my manager essentially just being like, she was like, So what are you doing? And I'm just like, Yeah, I'm trying to capture, like, what this team is doing. But the thing is, they're building it out, while at the same time, app teams are trying to cross or trying to get their their their app surprised. And so basically, I tried to boil it down to something that was simple to understand, okay, or something that they feel like, you know, just kind of, like, pick up. And so the example I used was like, hey, like, it feels like we're trying to build an elevator, but we're building the elevator at the same time that they're building the floors, so, you know, and as people are moving into those floors. So I really had to, like, dumb it down. Because, you know, we, you know, I don't really know much about Kubernetes, you know, security scans, things like that. Like, I would pick up the terms. But as far as, like, understanding what it did, like, I didn't like, I also didn't know. I knew my manager didn't know, because we don't speak engineering language, and so that was the best way I could do it, in terms of trying to, like, boil it down, something that we both knew so, so in that case, that's why I said, like, oh, like, we're trying to build an elevator at the same time that the floors are being built and people are moving in, but which is essentially what was happening. Because, like, we were trying to build out a platform to get applications to prod. But we, as we were building it, applications were using, or we're using the platform to also try to get the prod. So it was kind of like, you know, putting the plank before, you know, putting a plank, you know, putting each plank across like a bridge, and trying to walk along at same time, yeah. So yeah,

Pablo Alejo  7:59  
in that moment when you recognize that there was that disconnect and you had to come up with this, like you said that that connector, yeah, what was that like for you to do that in that moment? Is that something that just came natural to you? Or did you have to? How did you get there?

Jeffery Fulton  8:15  
It took, it took a while. Because I think there's a level of there's a little information that you have to process as well so you can kind of understand what they're related to. So as I refer to it as, like, there's the level of osmosis, essentially, like you hear like, these terms of engineers union over and over and over again, and you start to, kind of like, pick up on it and be like, Oh, okay, I think I know what's going on. But again, you kind of have to then find a way to flip it into something that you understand. Yeah. So, I mean, I guess the best way to even think about that is how it's almost similar to how, like, people, you know, basically had to use religion to basically, kind of convey, like, what's actually happening, you know, whereas now we have the science to actually explain it before it was just like, Okay, I don't understand what's happening here. I don't know why the sun comes up. Clearly, is some sort of entity that's just allowing the sun come up and let us see. So that's good.

Pablo Alejo  9:15  
Last question, I'll get you back back to your team. Tell me about a time when you're in a, let's say, let's say a workshop or a group setting, yeah, tell me about a time when something happened to shift the mindset of the direction of the where the group was going.

Jeffery Fulton  9:35  
Oh, oh, man, oh. Okay. So I just want to make sure I answer your question, right? So it was basically a time where I basically had to communicate something that maybe you didn't

Pablo Alejo  9:48  
have communicate, but maybe something happened, or someone said something, but in that moment, it was like the aha moment for everyone, right? Yeah, tell me about a time like that.

Jeffery Fulton  9:57  
Okay, so probably recently, I was working on a I was working on an air force application to basically, like, document medical, basic document medical injuries and for and I guess the whole thing about it was that we were, we were so sure That, like, okay, it works, like, we're basically replicating the T Triple C card. Like, oh yeah, the T Triple C card, like, we're basically replicating this, this thing should work well in the field. And then what happened was we got to, we actually got to go to exercise out at Air Force Travis in California, and we got to see it in real time, because they wouldn't let us test that. They wouldn't let us test the prototype, like, actually during the exercise, like they banned us from it. So we basically had to sit there and watch, and as we were watching them do the exercise of transporting patients, you know, you know, from from the airplane to what would be, like, EMS, trucks and things like that. Like, we could see, like, all the fusion is being like, Okay, I don't think our application, I don't think our application is going to, it's going to work, maybe for this particular situation, because there's too, like, there's too much movement. So we're just so kind of like, you know, like, hey, like, I guess what I communicated, it was just like, hey, like, you know, in track, if you're running a relay, is very simple to hand off a baton. And I was just like, there's nobody to hand a baton off to in this situation, you know, and I don't even know who's who's even going to have the time to pick up the baton. And that was kind of like aha moment for people, for like me, Well, personally, me and my PM, because we were the ones that were out there. And it just kind of conveyed to our stakeholder, because essentially, he was trying to use this third party device that he also created which we weren't responsible for, to be like, okay, hey, this will send this information and they'll be able to hand it off. And I'm just like, you have nobody to hand it off to, like, like, you know. So honestly, it kind of sucked, because it's like, it was a product that I think we all really believed in, but like, said, seeing it in real time and being like, Hey, man, like, you don't have a relay person, and just like, in a race, if like that person to get the baton, then, like, the race is over. Yeah. So at certain point, it's kind of like, oh man, we need to go back to the drawing board. So that was kind of like, Aha moment again. Trying to boil it down to something that hopefully everybody has, like, some frame of reference for. So one last follow

Pablo Alejo  12:40  
up, I'll leave you, let you do it when you when you identify the situation, to be able to speak up, to shift the mindset. What gave you the the freedom, the confidence, the nudge I feel like you could right, give that feedback, um, because you could have just said nothing. Everyone would just kept on going, Yeah, but you didn't what made

Jeffery Fulton  13:10  
um, so I think there, I think there's usually two ways to it. You can either see things, it's all, it's all, you know, hey, it's a risk assessment, essentially, but usually the way my personal approach is just like, hey, like, I will try to be as transparent as try to be as transparent as possible. You know, like, because I ended today, it's like, okay, hey, this is I kind of do, is just give my like opinion, or as like, say, with two cents. You know, most people say, like, take it or leave it. But it's one of those things where it's like, okay, Lisa said it. So therefore, when it comes back, like, Oh, why? Nobody Tell me then, you know, like, well, I said something. So I don't want to, like, let you go thinking, like, oh, yeah, this thing is amazing. So, so yeah, it's usually that like, hey, like, I there's no hard, there's no harm, no foul. Because especially building stakeholders good in that, in that sense, because either they're just like, I don't care, like, push it through, or they're like, Okay, why? Why are you saying that this won't work so and I think also, when I did my US program, that's one of the things I took away from our instructor. That's one of the big things that kind of the big things that kind of stuck with me, where he was just like, hey, like, sometimes in UX in particular, like, hey, like, those research findings, sometimes they might not shake out the way that stakeholders wanted to, and you're kind of still having to tell them, like, Okay, do I just say push it on. Just about, hey, we're here to get money and stuff like that. Which, unfortunately, that is a pretty, you know, it's a trade off you got to make sometimes, but also like, hey, sometimes it's like, Hey, man, I like, I hope you'll respect me more if I actually, you know, give you try to be as transparent as possible about, like, what's happening.

Pablo Alejo  14:57  
Why does that matter? Do you, you said, respect me more? Why? Why does that matter?

Jeffery Fulton  15:01  
Well, I think it matters just because you like, you got to like, I think you got to Wow, you got because I feel there's in society, because we're in a cap, you know, live such a capitalistic society like you have to. Everybody's already trying to upsell you on something, alright? So I was trying to upsell you on something here or there, and it just, it just makes more sense, you know, like, hey, like, I again, it's like, I feel people respect you more if you just say, like, hey. Like, I don't think this is gonna be as good as you think it is. Like, if you want to, fine, but I'll try to lay out all the options, because I know, I know everybody else probably behind me is probably going to try to find a way to be like, Oh, okay, cool. Let's push through and sell it to you so, and the last thing I want you to do is feel like, hey, like, I feel like I'm kind of being, you know, you know, I kind of feel like my pockets are being picketed. So, you know, it's a real thing, because everybody's been in that position. But it just like, Man, I think I got scammed. I think I got suckered. You go to the car dealership, you know, like, they're trying to upsell me on stuff. Like, I mean, I've recently just got my oil change, you know, there's like, oh, you need transmission fluid down, just like I got, I got it done at 60,000 miles. Like, I only got, I've only 15,000 miles into that. Like, you know, you need windshield wipers. Like, like, you need new windshield wipers. Those are $5 I can go get those from, like, Ali's or something like that. Like, there's always going to be that upsell, and so for me, I just rather be like, Okay, let me try to be honest with you, because, like, you know, I don't need to make all the money, but, you know, I but hopefully it's like, I've gained future money by, you know, gain of trust. So that's, that's kind of it.

Pablo Alejo  16:37  
Thank you so much. No, man, I appreciate you. Man, that was, that was amazing.

Jeffery Fulton  16:41  
Nah, man, no problem. Thank you, sir. Interviews.

