Pablo Alejo  0:00  
Okay, so we're trying to understand how to think about communication and and how we can help people communicate better, specifically around workshops. So we're interviewing people who have experience being a part of a service design jam or a workshop related kind of space. And so my questions are going to be around

Bianca Rivera  0:30  
that space, as a participant,

Pablo Alejo  0:32  
as a participant, as a participant. Okay, so the questions we're gonna be focusing on are how you communicate, to convey an idea and create alignment with people. So like, when you say something, they understand what you mean by that. Okay, so first question, actually, tell me your name and and a little bit about yourself.

Bianca Rivera  0:58  
Hi, my name is Bianca Rivera. I am a service designer by trade. I have participated in the service jam that we are currently a part of. This would be my third time. I've been a participant, I've been a coach, I've been an organizer, so I've played kind of different roles in that. And I also do a lot of kind of like workshopping as part of my day to day job as a service designer. Excellent.

Pablo Alejo  1:30  
Walk me through the first 30 minutes of a workshop where onboarding worked really well.

Bianca Rivera  1:38  
What made it effective? Does my example have to only be like in a workshop context, or can it be something at least like similar? So I think some of the best examples have been, I'm trying to think of like also conferences, because I think it has the same kind of vibe where, for example, whenever you come in, whatever registration looks like. So do you want, like, a specific I'm talking about, like, emotionally, but what's the question again, like, what like

Pablo Alejo  2:12  
in a workshop? Walk me through the first 30 minutes of a workshop, or, or, Oh, okay, I see the first 30 minutes of onboarding that worked really well.

Bianca Rivera  2:22  
Got it okay? So I think what worked really well, it was like an example, so even before the conference started. So thinking of like, the before experience that they send out, let's say an email I'm starting my experience.

Pablo Alejo  2:38  
Like, can you, like, Tell me about a conference? Oh, okay, I

Bianca Rivera  2:43  
don't know. Maybe like the Service Design Network Conference is a good example of one, the Code for America Summit. Of workshops that I've been a part of, I've been almost always a facilitator, not a participant. So that one's a little harder, but the onboarding experience was typically that before you know you've registered for the conference or the workshop, first part would be that I would get some sort of like email or message that details where the conference is located, how the way finding To actually get to the entrance of it tells you what you need to bring. Tells you maybe, like, the schedule or the agenda of things that you know, if you're like, oh, getting like, if they're providing lunch, are you having to get lunch, like, out somewhere. So I think one of the best parts of like an experience of, let's say, with the Service Design Network conferences that they gave a lot of that information up front for someone like me, I like to plan things, and I like to feel prepared for my experience. So if I know that, for example, oh, that lunch is not going to be provided, we have to go out and, like, buy it, then that lets me know, okay, well, I need a purse. I need to be able to already kind of look out for places to like walk to, versus, you know, there's other elements or certain parts of the experience that then I don't have to maybe, like worry about. So I think a really great part of any experience, whether it's like a workshop or a conference, is having a lot of kind of information up front that's critical for helping you prepare before you've even arrived, once arrived.

Pablo Alejo  4:24  
So I want to dig on that just real quick. So when you talk about like that, so So you know what to accept before you arrive. Kind of, can you kind of dig down double tap on that, a little bit about, like, what does that do for you? Specifically?

Bianca Rivera  4:38  
Yeah, the emotion so it makes me feel like, more secure in that I'm not in the state of ambiguity anymore. I don't it's quelling all of the questions that I'm potentially going to have that would either cause I don't know, a level of, like, anxiety or stress that ideally I wouldn't or that I could prepare so far. So like, lunch being a good example, it's like, oh, if I have to stress about, or if I didn't know that I had to go out and get my own lunch, I now have to stress about, like, finding a place, how far away is it and all that stuff, versus if I know ahead of time, then that's something that maybe I could even get ahead in preparing for. So it gives me, like, a sense of just, like, preparedness, security, and then I can also, I think, like, relax a bit more and actually enjoy the experience more, because I'm not having to spend probably as much time or, like, emotional energy, like worrying about parts, if that makes sense, then once actually arriving at the place that it's going. And this is talking about an in person experience. I want to clarify, as opposed to, like a virtual workshop or a virtual conference.

Pablo Alejo  5:49  
Want to want to pause you there, because I feel like what you're walking me through is like the expectations of a process. I'm a service design. Yeah, I get that. So what I would like to better understand is, like, when I think about communication, it's about when I see something, say something, do something, that the person that is that's in being interacted with gets it so they understand my context, my background. You know, sarcasm being as an example, and you're having a conversation with someone and they're sarcastic. Are they doing that to be funny? Are they doing that to be rude? It's about that type of communication. Does that make sense?

Bianca Rivera  6:24  
Yeah, it's just, I guess that, okay, this is not where I was going based on the first question that you have. So now I'm confused.

Pablo Alejo  6:31  
So it's like, when, yeah, so when it gets to, like, that first 30 minutes and and someone started just, I guess, like, the onboarding of what, that experience was, and they were communicating to

Bianca Rivera  6:46  
the audience. So you want me to tie more towards workshops then, and not use the because in the conference, same thing, though, because they still have to, they have to go, Well, yeah, I was getting to that, yeah.

Pablo Alejo  6:55  
But it was less about the process, to be very specific. So less less about they had the information laid out. It's more about, you know, I guess maybe

Bianca Rivera  7:05  
continue on. Let me just Yeah,

once arriving, actually being welcomed by someone I think is like a really great like, touch point in that overall experience, once you actually like, oh, you know, register or do all of that kind of administrative work, I think then once it actually kicks off, and let's say someone is in either some type of like stage or podium or just like the facilitator or the speaker, That is, like, commanding that area, some of the best ones that I've seen are ones where the they immediately instill this, like, sense of community. Because especially when it comes to workshops or conferences, you usually, unless you're going with like someone, you know, it's a bunch of people that are just all strangers. And so I think, like any any time that a facilitator or speaker takes the time to kind of ground the the rest of the day into what the intent or the purpose of like, why we're all here, is, I think, a really important part of it when it comes to like, since you're gearing more towards like communication styles, I think any speaker facilitator that just like brings the energy that we want to carry through the day is like, a really important part of communication style. I've been a part of to talk about like, kind of the negative ones. It's like, I've been a part of workshops or been a part of conferences where, oh, actually, confidence is, like a really big one, where if the way that they're communicating doesn't instill confidence that they know, like what they're doing, the agenda of the day, that that I feel like I'm being kind of shepherded, that I'm being guided by someone that that feeling of feeling supported and guided through the experience relies a lot on how confident the person communicates, and the certainty that they have in their own ability to guide you through this process. So some really great ones that I've seen feel like it has that sense of levity, so jokes or sarcasm, but that at the same time, it's still grounded in that we're here for a purpose, especially if it's like a workshop or a conference where, like, you're paying to be there. I think that's like, even more important, because if I'm taking time out of my day to be here. You want at least let me speak on behalf. I really enjoy people who communicate in a way that makes me feel like, oh, okay, they they got this, and they have a plan, and I'm here to be just a along for the ride for it, and they're going to bring as much opportunity as possible to have us also enjoy being here.

Pablo Alejo  10:12  
Tell me about a time when two people in a workshop were saying the same word, but clearly meaning different things. I have no idea.

Bianca Rivera  10:32  
This was one where so bias, like I was a note taker at this workshop, like I was part of the people that were helping facilitate it. But something that happened was we use the term a lot like alignment, like people were throwing around this term alignment. But we, when we started digging into it, we started realizing that, oh, what some people meant by alignment. They meant, like, unanimous, like consensus, versus some others felt more like, Oh, this is no, we're getting How do you say, like we're meeting in the middle. Like, okay, no, you're saying you want this, I want that. And we kind of meet somewhere in the middle. That's alignment. And so the moment we dug into it's like, oh, wait, we actually have radically different thoughts as to what we mean by alignment. And uncovering that in the workshop was critical to then actually being able to move forward, because then at that point, you're actually able to Okay. Now that we know that we're thinking about this in two different ways, how do we want to proceed? What do we want to define alignment being right now, so that, especially when they were making decisions, we can all actually be in on the same page as to like how we made that decision.

Pablo Alejo  11:43  
Do you remember the moment when you recognize that that was actually happening where, hello, everyone?


Pablo Alejo  0:00  
Yeah, okay, when you recognize that the that there was that disconnect, how did you recognize that? I'm

Bianca Rivera  0:11  
trying to, like, think back, because this was a few years ago. I think it was the moment that we were actually, like, making a decision about something that especially was, like, pretty critical, like, it had high impact and was going to have, like, reverberating, kind of consequences. And I think it was like, we were going kind of around the room, and each person was saying, like, Okay, I'm more I'm in favor of this, I'm in favor of that. And then I think someone said something to the effect of like, oh, but we don't have consensus. Like, not everyone is not everyone's choosing the same thing. So therefore we don't have alignment. And I think that was the moment that, when the moment someone verbalized what their thought or what their bias of like, what they what alignment meant to them, and said it out loud as like, oh, then we can't proceed like, we got to still stay on this topic, because we haven't aligned yet. We haven't and when that moment happened, someone else said, like, Oh, well. But I mean, we're kind of in this general space, and maybe we, at least, like, are aligned on this part, maybe then the other part could be later on. So I'll be right there. So yeah, I think it was a moment that some that someone feels like their definition of something was not met. They verbalize it out loud, and someone else is like, Oh, wait, actually, that's not how I was thinking about it

Pablo Alejo  1:38  
at all. Okay, last question, tell me about a time when something happened to shift the mindset and direction of a group that was that was happening. Tell me about a time when that happened.

Bianca Rivera  1:58  
There are a couple like different anecdotes that come to mind. I think one is, give me one else whenever someone who is especially like on the fray, like on the outside of, let's say, do

Speaker 1  2:13  
you have, like, a specific example? Sure, I just want to get very I

Bianca Rivera  2:17  
just, I tend to generalize, because I have several, okay, um, I'll be more specific. Does have to be in a workshop setting, does not have to be okay. So I'm gonna use a personal example then of myself, or no they want me to speak about, like how someone else did it, or

Pablo Alejo  2:34  
whichever, whichever is gonna be fast, because I know you got you get things to do. Can you

Bianca Rivera  2:42  
repeat the question so I can make sure I can synthesize

Pablo Alejo  2:44  
My time when something happened to shift the mindset of the direction that a group was going.

Bianca Rivera  2:58  
So I'm going to use my own personal example of having been the one that prompted this. I'm working on a project where the I came in kind of later after that project had already started. There were other designers on that team that were spearheading that project at that time and were guiding it in a certain direction that was going to meet the need, but there was a lot of opportunity. There was a lot of potential to do more, however, that wasn't really kind of thought of or considered we were already going down the path. We had already committed to going down a path of, okay, this is what we're doing. This is what we're doing. This is what we're building, and this is how we're going to build it, and that's what we're going to do. Let's, let's start the process. Let's get the ball rolling. So that time I come in that had already, there was already a direction, but seeing that there was potential to do something different, that would entail rework, would entail doing all sorts of other kind of planned work. I basically, like had a conversation, in that case, with the stakeholder, and didn't even have to be this, like whole pitch or proposal, but I just had a conversation with the key kind of decision maker, and express just was able to communicate that, hey, we have this untapped potential. We have this opportunity here. And if you give me two weeks, three weeks, to just explore that and be able to show you what's possible, you can tell me whether this is worth the investment or not. And after having done that, we went then down this path of exploring this whole new area that was had not even been considered, was not part of the plan and was not projected as part of the original work

Pablo Alejo  4:53  
in one sentence, because I know we got time what was happening in that moment that made you feel confident enough to be able to have that conversation. I'm

Bianca Rivera  5:05  
trying to not make it sound so like mean, but it's like the fact that no one had even thought of considering an alternative path, and that was a big flag to me. So the fact that this decision was made that was very myopic, and at no point did they ever consider an alternative that made me confident that being able to say that what I was proposing was meaningful interviews.

