Alrighty. So, let me ask you, like, you know, like, When you go to a design workshop or design session, walk me through the 1st 30 minutes. You know, how the outboarding was, and was it effective at all or not? Mm. So... Going, going to, uh, I'm just gonna take, like, uh, 1st timer perspective. Like, come into, like, a design dam workshop. Like, I don't want to read the room, like, who's there, who's representing what different groups parties, why are they there? Why are they trying to get out of it? Just like a quick sampling. I went to one at University of Richmond, like 2 weekends ago. It was, like, a civic kacathon. And one of the things that facilitator did was like raise your hand after like, you know, we drove an hour to get, like, under an hour to get here. Raise your hand if you drove to over 2 hours. So just kind of give you like a social mapping of the crowd. Just to, like, help me, like, deal out who else is here. And that was one, as far as topic, like in subjects, like, giving us quick examples, like, let's do a group exercise, go break it out into teams, like, really just start digging in quickly. Um, and then you break out into your, your groups or topics, like, I think like that's how I've seen the, yeah, 1st, you know, 1st parts of a session. And how did you, like, Think about it. Was it effective, not effective, or I think depending on how many times somebody's been to something, they may play by the rules. They may not. So my group at the time was like, we don't need that. We left. I was like, well, wait, there's like all these people here who I... I've never, in that before, like, I don't know, I don't want to leave in the middle of something, but they're like, well, we've done this a 1000 times or I don't want to do this. Right. So I like tinge. Not everybody was starting with the same parameters. I also want to prove a little bit of ban. When you go to events, how do you feel about the representation, right? Like brown and black people, especially from that standpoint. And what does that mean for you to be in that session, right? Do you carry that along with you? Somewhere unconsciously, and how would that affect the outcome of it? Well, I would say, like, this event is, like, highly, like, there's more representative I was expecting. So that maybe that's like a data point, but... Yeah, typically like at the U of R event, like maybe, you know, it's a, it's a private university. So you have to have the money, well, access to go there. So, like, numbers are less for diversity. Yeah. But yeah, I think it depends on where and who's organizing. Does that influence your thought about like how this session is burned to go one way or the other? When you have exclusive injury and when you have like inclusive entry. I think, um, depending on the topic, yeah. If it's something about, like, you're doing community service, and there's people who are not from that community, then, like, that feels weird. All right. Let's say, like, your past 30 minutes in your workshop. Whatever design station that you're being in, then, you know, you've kind of like got hold of, like, things and you're starting to brainstorm now. Can you tell me about a time in, you know, 2 people in a workshop where, like, using the same words? But we're not clearly understanding each other or meant different things. Can you can you tell me how did this play out? Yeah, we're talking to say, like, I think we're talking past each other, and that's, like, a common phrase out here. I'm just like, um, people don't feel like they're heard, and they're kind of like, um, it's kind of like, um, an acknowledgment that's needed in order to even restate. Oh, what happened or what was said? And, like, oftentimes if you're ideating a mile a minute, you may not be checking, oh, did I hear you say, blah, blah, blah? Um, so then, like, you can kind of just, like, start diverging and then your divergence becomes too wide. And then maybe conflict starts to appear like, oh, this person doesn't like me, blah, blah, blah. So how do you resolve this now? Like, you know, yeah, that happens in every group, I feel like, right? What have been some of your methods to resolve this? We use echoing, which is just, like, I heard you say, or what you said made me think of. Um, so you're acknowledging what was said. You may not directly respond to it, but at a, you know, echo is just kind of like a reflection back. Mirroring will be like, here are the specific things I heard you say. It's more detail. Tell me why they play a role, like, why echoing and mirroring, help you, which is this gap. You know, it allows you to trace the conversational memory. So it's just like, like in computers, in the computing world, like, for a network to work, there's this idea of a handshake, like information is passed from one computer to another. Acknowledged, I got it. Handshake. Then you send the next message. There's a staging. And what does that do to the group and for you and the people? Yeah, so for computers, it's like keeps things in sequence. Like, in conversations, things are messy. So this, you know, that kind of creates a pause in the conversation and allows you to kind of reorient sense, makes sense, and decide on like what your next steps are. So just like a practice. Got it. That's good. Thank you. Another question, right? Like, now that your brain's down and everything and there's this complex idea, and a nuanced idea that you are trying to explain to the group. So how do you do that? What has been effective way to do that? Um, yeah, complexity is hard. Um. It's abstract the system. Like, you have to simplify. You have to reduce. You have to focus attention on like specific things. And then you connect the dots between those smaller parts and you say, like, what if zoom out? This is, like, the bigger picture. So I like when we do the mapping. Like, we're trying to collect insights and boil that up to a theme, boil that up to questions, you know, like that, that zooming out, actually taking perspective, perspective taking is really useful to help people, like, get on the same page, because they may come at it from a completely different way. Yeah. So you mentioned very good points about reducing, simplifying and connecting the dots. Can you tell me an example of how you did that or like what kind of tools or techniques or devices or what is it that is used to that? Um, so for the University of Richmond Project, we were looking at, um, how might we help people? Who are facing loneliness? Um, you know, find other options to create belonging. And so, like, we would just go interview people, just random person, random person, random person. We'd take a quote, generate like some insights, map a pattern. You know, pull that out into kind of just like a bucket. And then we just like rinse her feet. Got it. So that's like bottoms up. So you were reducing the collective information that you've got into, like, distilled insights, that what's new meant by resume. And then simplifying is to like helping understand what you meant by that inside to others. And then connecting the dots is to like see how this plays out into the whole ecosystem, the problem that you are trying to solve. Very interesting. And you also mention mapping is one of your favorite. One of your methods that you've been always falling back on. Any other tools? If it's participatory and less like, uh, researcher, like researcher led versus like participant lab, like participant led, I like tools like liberating structures. Uh, which is like a complex. comes from the complexity theory world. So they use a framework called like 124 all. It was like you have a individual reflection, a dyad, like 2 person reflection, and then 4 would be like a quad. So each layer, they're combining insider knowledge. And then all is like, you share it back to the group. So like one person will just like shout something out. So like you're creating synthesis through participatory methods. And then everybody sees the same or they don't see the same thing, but they'll see the same, they'll hear the same thing at the same time. And that kind of creates a different type of coherence versus someone like extracting an insight. That was very fun, man. Like, wow, wow. That's where I want to go. participatory research. Right, right. That's awesome. Can I do one more, 5 more minutes? All right, okay. I'm charging you by the minute. It's okay. All right, okay. I'll pay you by the beer. So, like people have different communication styles, right? Like, you know, I'm a visual person. I like to draw take notes and like, you know, do something like that. There are people who are very good at listening, right? Like, you know, they don't have to take notes, they're away. Some people are very kind aesthetic, right? Like you have to make and do things and to learn. So when it comes to like all these different styles, um, and at the end of the day, what matters is collaboration between all of them. Can you tell me about, like, what kind of communication did you do in the workshop to, like, keep everybody or listen to everybody? With different learning, different communication styles. Yeah. Because I've run some of these, like, design of the hackathons before, like, one of the, if you're building, like, a product, which is the example for this case, we broke into teams. Who's good at development, who's good at user research, marketing, who is more like business model person? So breaking into teams. And so these people are in their bubbles and they're not talking to each other. So now you have echo chambers. At some point, like, you need a pollinator, someone would bounce around, load from each group and then pull the groups together. So, like, I played that more floating role, and I was like in the user research team, but I'd be like, hey, what do you guys think about this? And they're like, oh, they're like, we're talking about this. And like, whoa, what does that mean for this? Like, well, maybe we should go talk to this person. So, like, constantly making sure we didn't get siloed, like, build bridges with questions, invite people to give insights, just kind of making it chorus, that porosity. That's our word. I think it's a word. Yeah, no, it is a word. We make it up. Yeah. If it's not, we'll add meaning to it. There we go. So you say very interesting thing about, like, pollinators are important for cross-collaboration to happen. you know, in a workshop setting. And when I was talking to you about, like, the beginning of the workshop, and you said, like, when you were, like, everybody hands, raise your hands, or get onto the desk, you know, the marathon. Should it be one of those things where, like, you know, where you should call out in the very beginning itself for the pollinators? Then, you know... Yeah, good. Good. Um, I mean, even, even here, like, today, like, we have teams. There's no assigned role of someone going and talk to other teams, but, like, I'm Right, yeah. I just show up. I still talk to... Absolutely. Your, like, our ideas may meld in some ways, or you might give insight. So it's like, it's in my best interest to share. ask questions. So that's how I look at is like a responsibility on my own side. That's great. That's good. And last bad one, question. Tell me about someday that happened in the team that shifted the mindset or the direction of the group? Hmm. And how did the team unlock that moment? Yeah, so the person who convened the team around, like, they pitched the idea. They had pitched the same idea last year. Ah. But, like, if you come to an event with a preformed idea, like you're not inviting in the wisdom of the crowd. And so there's some challenge with that. Who is the who can be the visionary in a crowd, right? Because now you're creating a power structure. Like, I have the idea you don't, so you do what I say, and, like, getting that conflict showed up. Um, they didn't want to do something a certain way, but they also weren't aware of their role and kind of, um, slowing things down. They're like, I already did the research. We don't need to research. Why do we need to talk to people? You know? So the way we dealt with it was, like you're, like, come back to the team level, like we're all in this together. There's no winner, there's no losers. Like, we're all same same level of roles. You know, there's no difference. Right. Um, and I think that helped a little bit, but yeah, conflict and how do you deal with concept as it emerges is like a skill. A lot of times people show up to events after a long week. They're cognitively overloaded. This is a weekend, you know, like I don't want to be thinking too hard. Like, don't don't give me too excited, you know, like, we're kind of dealing with people, like, at partial capacity. So, like, how do you be generous and gentle in that regard? Got it. So let me reiterate what you were saying to me, which is to unlock the team's moment or like that critical moment where the direction changes is to like give everybody the power to like talk and follow the vision of the crowd. And anything else that you want to add to this? Yeah, the wisdom of the crowd, I think, is it brings in perspectives that you personally may not have. Right. So, like, the morning... Yeah, be open to that. And then if you're overloaded, like, take a step back and relax, rest, like, take a break. Because, like, how you show up also affects everybody else. Correct, yeah. Kind of, like, internalizing your own emotions before, like, you know, going where not 1st or like... Or even just naming how you're feeling, like that helps people relate to you better. Like, Abu Sheikh, man, I'm tired. You're going after these questions hard. There's no more questions, man. Like, it's 20 minutes. You told me five. Oh my god, okay. Just kidding. I'm kidding. Last one is like magic one question, right? Like, um, is there anything that you would like to share or how would you suggest rethinking communication in a design, workshop, or design jam? Uh, I think there should be, like, walls for the people to just, like, drop stuff off. Like, I see a lot of walls for teams, but I don't see a lot of walls for the event, and if I'm told to wait until the end of the event, I've probably forgotten a lot of things in the moment. So maybe just like an insight wall or what's alive? You know, people just like, this was cool. Like I just called my friend who I haven't spoken to in 5 years, you know? made the crazy stuff that happens. Like, let's capture it as it's happening. Wow, very interesting, right? Like, yeah. Like Temporo, you know, rather than like waiting for the end, it's like, the idea dies as soon as you leave it. So, like, why don't you capture it? I'm pushing on the wall, and, you know, work with it. Yeah. There's also open space technology. I don't know if you've heard of that. Tell me more about it. It's one of the social technologies, like liberating structures. We're dealing with groups in emergent ways, so it has, like, three rules. Whoever shows up are the right people. So like, that's a good rule. The law of 2 feet. Wherever you need to go, you should go. Yes. Yeah, we're we're over here. No, no. I think this is the right time. You should actually capture him. Well, thank you so much, Brandon. You're fine. All right. I really appreciate it. Brandon, please. Well, I don't know what I'm doing, what I'm doing. All right, I can interview you.