Okay, so as I was saying, like, so the 1st question was just, you want to read it back to me? So, like, let's say you entered a room, which is the service jam, or like design jam, or design workshop. Yeah. Can you tell me how the 3rd 1st 30 minutes went? Can you talk about more about the orientation, the onboarding? Yeah. What stood out? So I think, uh, embedded in that question, So be, I've been to many jams. I've been jamming since 2011. Um, and I've been both a jammer and an organizer, and a host and a facilitator and a coach. And I've had many different hats. Um, but yes, I've been a jammer many times. And even within the times where I was just a participant, Every jam is so different. So to say, oh, can you walk me through the first 30 minutes, I would say, in some of them, it was 8 people in a room, and there was no real coaching facility. It was just us doing it. And then there were other times where it was like a big group and it was very, like, very much a production, right? And so, I think every kind of jam is a totally different beast. So if you want me to just pick a specific one and say, what was my experience, and that one, I could give you answers. But if you want my experience across jams that I've been a participant in... I would... completely different. Pick the most recent one where you were, like, you know... The most recent one where I was a participant. Uh... Which one was that? Okay, I'll think about, I was a participant and one in New York City. I had just moved to New York. This was many years ago, so I'm probably a little bit fuzzy on the details. But, you know, it was one of those things... Oh, man, this is so long ago, I don't even know. I remember being split up, put on teams. I did go with two friends, and we were all split and put on different teams. So I know we weren't choosing our own. Let me reframe this question to make it a little easy, because now you also wear a hat of the host, or coach. What would be? Yeah, what would be the most effective way to, like, onboard or, like, you know, what have you found was most effective? Yeah. And efficient. Yeah. So one thing that I've experienced, and I assume that other people have experienced, because I project a lot, is different people come to the jam for different reasons. And even I come to the jam for different reasons, as my craft has evolved. Right? So the first time I jammed, which was back in my 2011 or 2012, I was just excited to learn about the tools. Right? Like, I was a young budding service designer, and I wanted to learn and flex, you know, those muscles. And so, for me, that was the goal. Like, I wanted to get to experience really cool things. Um, kind of like a crash course, right? Whereas later, you know, it became more about the fun, or it became more about the socializing and the networking, or... Yeah, I think for me, it became less and less about learning. Not to say that I stopped learning. I think I still learn things, even when I'm hosting. I'm learning things vicariously, you know, through watching other teams. in their shareouts. But yeah, I definitely think the first time you jam, even if you're just a participant every time, the first time you jam to the fifth time you jam, it's gonna be totally different. And so, in terms of the experience that you have, if you're just, you know, if you're largely going there to network and socialize and just have fun, basically, it's like, you know, it's like summer camp for service designers. You're like, I just get to, like, play with my friends and do things that I wouldn't get to do, you know, you know, normally, it's hard to get this many people into one place to just, like, work on design projects, unless it's at work, and then when it's at work, it's a totally different beast. You have pressures and timelines, and, you know, clients or bosses or whatever that you're trying to please here. It's you're free. to just do the work the way you want to do it. And that's really enjoyable. And you have really cool people to do it with. And so, I think, like, it helps me in some ways, kind of, um, not rediscover, but, like, keep, you know, one foot and the joy of doing design. Um, which sometimes you can lose through all the shit you have to do. Yeah, I mean, I do think, like, as a practicing service designer, it feels like 90% of the work you do isn't actually designed. You're, like, in meetings, and, you know, you're defending the work, or, you know, selling the work, or, you know, you know, there's all this stuff that is, doesn't feel like the reason that you went to school. You know, right? So this is kind of reinvigorating, in a way. So, in a way, what I'm hearing is, like, um, when you recounted yourself as the 1st time jammer and then a season jammer. Yeah. And I think the needs of the 1st timer are different from the needs of the cliff timer or 6 timer. And I think the onboarding experience should take into consideration the whole spectrum of these participants, yeah, and create an effective strategy. to help with the onboarding of these people. Yeah, I would agree with that. So in terms of onboarding, I mean, I know that you want me to be a participant, but like, this one that I'm hosting, like, I purposely kind of created 3 paths for teams to go down. I've been in jams before where they tried to organize people based on jam experience. I've been in jams before where they tried to organize people based on service design experience. And, you know, to varying success. The first year they did, like, an expert track, it fell apart spectacularly. Mm. It was bad. It went off the rails. And, uh, right? And so I'm like, I don't even want to do that anymore. But yeah, so I think at 1st it was like a way to learn new tools and use them. And then I think as I went to more jams, it became more about like, how can I break and make new tools and use them, right? So yeah, I became more interested in Um, yeah. All right. It was less about learning the basics, and it was starting to push the edges, I think, was... So in terms of, like, my onboarding, I mean, when I first show up, uh, you know, and it's also, I will say, again, this is a little bit of the host side, but, like, not, like, you know, I always make sure now that there's plenty of food and plenty of drink, because I don't want people to be distracted by that. want them to be able to focus. And similarly, that's me projecting. Like, if I'm working on something, I don't want to have to worry, like, oh, well, I guess we're gonna pause our work and go get lunch for an hour, right? Um, I mean, sometimes good conversations come out of that, but it also can be a hindrance, right? Especially in a short time span. So in terms of coming in, you know, you wanna very quickly meet people, um, you want to form your teams, um, right? It's not it's not the same as just like a service design drinks. It's not just social. Like, you do want to, like, work together. That is like the fun. And so, you know, pretty quickly, you want to be given kind of like the structure of the event, like the outline. And you want to be given the prompt, and then you, to some degree, you just want the hosts to get out of the way, you know, so you can work. I will say, from a host perspective, you also have people who are there to learn service design, who have never done it before. So there is gonna be some degree of, like, educational lectury part, um, which some people don't need at all. But, you know, every designer has a slightly different take on design, and sometimes it's interesting to hear their perspective. Okay. But yeah, so, I mean, being put into a group and being able to start working is always fun. And that's the fun. Right. So, one of the things that we are trying to work on is like, you know, how do we better communicate as humans or how do we rethink about human communication and design setting, you know, design jam or design workshop? Um, especially when, um, you know, one of the ways to think about it is people are visual owners, people are auditory learners, people are visual, um, you know, fingers. And people are kind aesthetic learners, people are kind aesthetic thinkers. So, When you have such a diverse group of people, um, How do you find the common thread of speaking the same language in, you know, if I were to show you this, right? like this diagram of like, um, how do we make the meaning? How do we create the same language so that we align and get to some clarity and outcome? Yeah. So what has been your experiences with different type of communication and what's been the best way to communicate in that setting? Yeah, so within teams, right, when you're collaborating with a group, there's always going to be some tensions, right? There's gonna be, I mean, part of working in a group is there's consensus. And I think that's both a pain and a pleasure, right? Because, obviously, if you just wanted to work by yourself, you could, and then you would get to dictate all the decisions. So working with other people involves consensus or, you know, as another C word. I'm not thinking of, but, um, I've been in, you know, I think having everyone be aligned on the ultimate goal is really valuable. So making sure that that's kind of set in a way, right? If we all agree that we're here to have fun or that we're all here to learn or that we're all here, you know, I think 10 friction comes when there's different desires. And then the different team members are pulling it in different directions. And that can become very frustrating for someone who's like, I took my weekend out, you know, because I want to learn tools, and this other person just wants to, like, shoot the shit and chalk philosophy, and you're like, I'm not learning anything, right? So, like, you know, you can you can feel like you're wasting your time. I've also encountered many, I don't know, if I would call them problematic, but that's probably not a very nice way to say it. Like, um, people who really make the jam about them, right? So, like, everything that you decision you make, they're like, you know, they make it about themselves in a personal way. Um, or, like, there is, there's one woman who, every time, she was in a jam or in a team, you know, she would bring up, like, her, her history of trauma and all the bad things that have happened to her, and very quickly, everyone's wants to be respectful, but it totally derails the, the design work that's supposed to happen. But you also don't want to, you know, basically she turns everyone into her captive therapy session. And, you know, it's we're like, okay, okay, so like, how are, you know, how does this apply to the problem at hand? You know, like, you're trying to bring her back on track and then she'll feel like you're being disrespectful or something, right? You know, so I've seen this also, you know, I have not firsthand, but I've seen it, you know, where people, based on race or gender, feel like they're not being listened to or not. You know, that their opinions aren't being given equal weight. And in one case, it was like literally the entire team wanted to go in one direction. This one person didn't. And then they were like, oh, it's because I'm a woman. And you're like, no. Like, you literally just voted. And like, you know, I'm sorry that your vote isn't worth more than all of their votes. But they decided that this is the direction they want to take it. You know, like, it's kind of hard, right? And so, like, I've seen how it can fall apart. Um, In terms of like communication, I think that comes down to personal skills and abilities. Like, I feel like I'm pretty good. I mean, everyone probably does, but I feel like I'm pretty good at communicating and I recognize the semantic differences. And so I try to, like, you know, see the forest through the trees. Like, if they're using a different term than me, I'm like, that's fine. We can use your term. You know, like, um, I don't feel like... I mean, honestly, I don't know exactly what the quote unquote problem is that you guys are working on, but I don't feel like I've had lots of problems with communication. That hasn't been the issue. That's definitely not a problem, right? Like, I'm just talking about effective communication. It's not about like, you know, a problematic communication per se. Let me ask you in a different way, right? Like when 2 people are saying something and they are saying the same thing, but in different way. And they're not meaning it. Right? Like, 2 people in a workshop are using the same word, but clearly mean different things. Oh, sure, sure, sure. So how does this play out and how do you resolve it? Or do you have an experience where you can share about this event? Yeah, I mean, I can imagine 2 people kind of talking past each other. Um, which I'm sure is frustrating for everyone involved. I think sometimes you almost need a mediator. Right? Sometimes you, it's useful to have a coach or a facilitator who can kind of step in and kind of, almost like a referee, I guess. and say like, look, you may or may not agree with this, but I'm gonna make this call for the team. So you so you don't get stuck, right? I think that's the big thing is, you know, you have 48 hours, you know, you have your jam, and you don't want to come to some gap that just completely shuts everything down. Right? So if there's a way that you can bridge that, or skirt around it and just say, you know what, like, let's just kick the can on that, or, like, let's just not go in that direction. Um, you know, in order to continue moving forward. I think that can be very useful. Um, I'm trying to think of a jam where, like, I had direct contact with a teammate, uh, You know, 11 other thing that I've experienced is, and this just has to do with kind of the design. So I've been on teams where it's like 3 people or 5 people. I've also been on a jam where it was basically everyone, I don't know, it was 20 to 30 people, was all on one team working on the same project. And it was weird and the way it worked is basically people would break off the pieces they were interested in. And then we basically, Frankenstein, the project, you know? So like one team was like, oh, we're gonna build, I don't know, this ad campaign and this other one was like, oh, we're gonna build this journey. and we're gonna be like, and they just basically like everyone just like broke off a piece of the service. Right. and built it. And then we just sort of all smashed it together at the end. You know? Like, um, We weren't presenting to anyone. It kind of didn't matter. But, you know, that that's another sort of way to deal with the communication issue. I guess at a deeper level, I think giving people some autonomy is very important, right? Letting them work on the things that they're interested in working on. or working on things in a way that they'd like to work on them. Yeah, I think people don't necessarily like being told what to do. Right. You know, again, the spirit of the jam is to have fun and to learn and to hopefully build something that's interesting. And so, like, anything, you know, anyone who's taking it too seriously is kind of against the spirit and they're gonna break it for themselves and everyone else, right? Because at the end of the day, you know, you know, the clock hits a certain time and you're like, okay, we're done. you're like, that's it. you're like, yeah, that's it. You're not getting a grade. You're not gonna get fired or hired. You know, you're not gonna piss off a client, right? It's like, you're like, that's it. You just walk away from it. And I think, you know, you can't you can't take it. It's not like people who like play Monopoly and flip the board when they're losing. It's like, dude, it's we're here to enjoy each other's company. You know, like, yeah. Yeah. So let me fast track the legs 2 questions because, like, you know, we have to go and eat the pie in a second. So, I'll ask you this one, right? Like, If there was like, you know, think of a time where like you had a very difficult or complex idea to explain to everybody, um, and what was some of the most effective ways to do that? And what, or what else, what have you found? Like other people have done effectively? Are you talking about, like, an idea, like a service concept idea or just...? Just like any idea, like me, let's say, let me give you a, like, a preview. Well, I can say, right? Like, like, business model cameras. like something where people have clarity on what they are talking about, what they're doing, and the complex idea of business model is like able to like do it. So anything of that nature that you have like had a experience working with or... Yeah, I mean, maybe this is a bit too meta, but, I mean, I've been doing service design for, I don't know, since 2008, 2009, and explaining to people what service design is, has always been difficult. Yeah? So difficult that in 20, what was it, 11, 2014? I don't remember when I actually finally made it. 2012, 2011. I made a video explaining what is service design. And even today, even though I made this video and it's probably the most viewed service design video in the world, I still have someone like asked me to explain what it is, it's still hard. Because you kind of always need to meet the person where they are. Right? Like service design, I could, like, academically explain it to them. But it's not gonna click, right? I need to speak their language. And so I often, when someone asks what service design is, the first thing I say is, well, tell me what do you do? Right? And so I, you know, if they say, oh, I work in a hospital or I work, you know, this or whatever, I'm like, okay, great. So, like, and then I'm like, a lot, you know, I'm a lawyer. Like, okay, so, like, ultimately, I try to find something that they do that is a service or is an experience. And then I talk about how, like, you know, we have well designed products, and we have, you know, shoes and fashion, and all this sort of stuff. It's like, the services are also designed. Like, there are decisions being made. That affect everyone's experience when they engage, right? And so I always try to tie it into that. Because, yeah, I can give, like, a blanket broadcast sort of answer, but it doesn't always click in the same way that, like, a tailored, narrow cast answer as well. Yeah. Last question, magic one. Yeah, yeah. Where to, like, have a very effective communication tool where everybody can speak through clarity, speak through agencies, speak through freedom, and also collaborate and come to an outcome. What would you think should, what would you be that magic thing? Man, I mean, I've always wished that I could just, like, plug your head into someone else's and just, like, have them understand or have you understand either, either way. bidirectional, right? Just be like, Oh, man. Because I see what happens. I probably even picked this up from him a bit when my father is, like, the king of overexplaining. Like, he'll tell you the same thing seven different times in seven slightly different ways, and you're like, I get it. I get it. I get it stopped. yeah And then he gets frustrated if you cut him off, right? So, like, and I know I do this too. Um, I think for me, you know, to defend it is like, if you're saying something and you don't feel like they understand it, then you say it again in a different way. You're like, you're trying to paint all the nuances. You really wanna, like, create the richness of that understanding for them. So they, I think the term that I've heard is Grok. I love this term grok, right? You want them to grock it. You want them to understand it as if it is, you know, it's, well, groc will often go like towards a person. It's like, it's like, I know you as well as you know you, right? So to grock something is like to just like totally have assimilated it, you know? Um, Right. So that's why I would overexplain things is because I want them to totally understand all the little nuances, nooks, and crannies of that thought. And it's not possible, probably, without being plugged into each other. Yeah, yeah. Because everyone's got their own backgrounds and their own, they're all bringing them. Everything's painted through their eyes. So, um, magic wand would be that, uh, Yeah, great idea, man. Like, you know, let's see. But also... how we can match people's brains together. Yeah, I know that Grac is now an AI as well, which is terrible. I wish I wish Elon was a better person because he has such so many entertaining ideas. Yeah, he's such a dick about it. I want a style recording, but...