Aaron Faust  0:00  
Yeah. So our, what we're doing research on is how to make communication more effective at workshops like this. So it could be a service design game. It could be another workshop that you know, human centered design, whatever it is, short workshops. And so we had a few questions about ways you think that could be done better. And so would you be willing to walk me through, like, the first 30 minutes of a workshop where you thought that onboarding everybody in the workshop worked really well, and, like, what made it effective?

Kevin  0:35  
I thought I actually was pleasantly surprised with this, this particular workshop, you know, there was a bit of an introduction, you know, we had somebody up there who was kind of the point person in the face for the group. And then, you know, we all quickly broke into groups, and people got to kind of actively participate, and then get up and move around a little bit. And then it was right into into icebreakers, which, you know, sometimes I love icebreakers, sometimes I hate them, but, you know, by and large, they work and so and that got people talking. And I really thought that that that didn't stop it really kind of just got people energized. So I thought that worked really well. No, good, great.

Aaron Faust  1:18  
Can you tell me about a time when two people in a workshop were using the same word but clearly meant different things. And alternatively, it could be as well, when people are kind of have the same meaning, but are using different words. And so in both cases, though, they're not really having effective communication.

Kevin  1:37  
I think I see the second second example more often where they're using the same words, but wait, actually, can you repeat that part of it like they'll use different words but have the same meaning? I do think that happens a lot. I think people you know sometimes struggle to communicate what they're thinking, and so they're coming at it and thinking that the other person means something different because they're using different words. But the more you hear, the more you know, I actually heard in a couple different instances today, walking around to the groups that you know the phrase, I think we're both thinking the same thing, and so, yeah, sometimes that just, you just kind of have to talk it out and talk it through to get to get to that aha moment like and it helps have a third party going, I think both thinking the same thing, just just saying it differently.

Aaron Faust  2:28  
Yeah, I guess, related to that when you, when you try to explain a complex or nuanced idea in a workshop, what can help unlock the group, or what works and falls flat for kind of explaining those

Kevin  2:40  
kinds of things, visuals, I think work really well. Yeah, I am one of the worst people when it comes to trying to explain what's on my mind, because it's sometimes like starts coming out of my mouth before I fully, you know, flesh it out in my head. Yeah? But I do find that when you have visuals to show folks, it helps a lot. So when I'm trying to explain like a complex process or and this is something where we use things like process maps and service design, I find when people can kind of look at it and absorb it at their own pace, without having to hear words that can be misinterpreted, I think that helps a lot. So whether it be a process map or a journey map or, you know, what's the phrase a picture or picture paints 1000 words, yeah, you know, some kind of visual really helps people understand what, what I think is trying to come across.

Aaron Faust  3:37  
Are there any particular, I guess, to go a little deeper on that. Like, can you think of a specific example when, you know, you brought an artifact like that that helped kind of unlock that for the group? And, like, what did that look like? Yeah.

Kevin  3:53  
So I deal with a lot of groups. I deal with a lot of processes where there's multiple groups involved, and oftentimes they don't know what one another is doing, or they have a vague idea. And so I mentioned process maps earlier. This is one of my favorite tools lately, because when you have these siloed groups, you don't understand. You know what happens when you hand off your portion of it to the next to the next group, and you certainly don't understand what happens three or four steps down the line. So the things that you're doing might impact somebody four steps down the line, but you're just not seeing it. So when you have this visual process map, it's a good way for people to kind of understand, oh, what I'm doing over here could be done better, so that it helps this person down here. So yeah, so I'm really, really liking those lately.

Aaron Faust  4:42  
Probably Can you tell me about a time when someone who is quiet for most of a workshop, and how do members of the group help them engage in a workshop?

Kevin  4:57  
I. Yeah, often, and this is something that we we purposely try and do when it comes to instead of just throwing out ideas. And I think we did at the very beginning of this workshop, where it was, let's do some quiet, you know, brainstorming, and instead of just talking, it was, let's write them down on sticky notes and put them up on the walls. I think you all did some of that over here. And what, what that does is it allows for people to generate their ideas and think thoughtfully about it, instead of like the loudest person in the room taking over, which happens a lot. And so that's one of the things that I think we do in service design and design thinking and human centered design, is let everyone get those ideas out. And you know, even the act of writing them down, I think, helps people communicate a little bit better.

Aaron Faust  5:51  
Can you think about someone in a workshop who communicated very differently from you in a different style or mode of communication, and how that affected collaboration. Yeah, happened, yes.

Kevin  6:05  
So I tend to, like, I said, just spill stuff out of my mouth before I'm, like, even formulating it. And then there are other folks who, it was a colleague of mine, actually, and at first it was really frustrating, because she spoke very kind of haltingly and thoughtfully. And so I was just like, come on, come on. Get it out. Get it out. Get it out. But I later came to realize, like, this is a different style, and it not only is just as good as what I might do, but it kind of complements what I did. So I would, you know, rush things out. She would be very thoughtful. And, you know, we would both get, you know, be able to communicate in our in our different ways, but then find out that we're, we're kind of coming together at the end. So are

Aaron Faust  6:54  
there any particular like techniques that maybe, as a facilitator, as somebody who's running a meeting, you would do to help, I guess, like facilitate those. I think so there's some, I

Kevin  7:05  
think the the key for a facilitator is to recognize that these are going to happen beforehand, and have some kind of phrases where you can kind of stop here. So haven't finished

Speaker 1  7:20  
doing the research, I would recommend wrapping that this also happens with, let him finish. Would be really nice if we could.

Kevin  7:35  
This also happens in, in what we now have, you know, hybrid meetings, where some people are are, you know, calling in and video conferencing, and other people are in the room. And so it's really important for the facilitator to to recognize that it's not easy for, you know, somebody who's remote. It's not easy for somebody who might be, you know, quieter or an introvert, to always get in there. So, you know, just kind of like these little phrases, like, let's take a minute and let so and so speak. Or, hey, let's, let's pause for a second and, you know, hear what the folks you know on the line have to say, Yeah, type of thing. So it definitely, it's something that that you have to be prepared for beforehand as a facilitator, and make sure that you just take that minute and pause and and make sure that everyone has an opportunity to speak great.

Aaron Faust  8:23  
This is kind of the last main question. Can you tell me about a time when something happened to shift the mindset or the direction that a group was going in? Maybe they had momentum going in one direction, and then

Kevin  8:39  
I've had a few of those sort of aha moments, and it's a lot of the times it's when we're stuck at a point. So, so the big shifts that I've seen are when, you know, we're kind of the group is going down a path, and things start to slow down, and they start to, you know, we can't move something forward enough. Yeah. And sometimes the best thing to do then is just to start throwing just anything out, throwing stuff at the wall and seeing what sticks. And then, you know, when you do that, sometimes there's, there's these aha moments of like, oh, wait, what did you just say there? And let's, let's talk about that a little bit, and let's unravel that. So, yeah, sometimes you just kind of have to spitball and and let things see what happens. And, and there is, like a light bulb, and they're like, we found the right path again. So you kind of know when things are slowing down, like you might be going down the wrong path. And so that's when it's a good idea to kind of stop and just sort of start throwing things out there.

Aaron Faust  9:36  
Yeah, what is I mean, very last thing, is there anything else you'd want to share about communication during the workshop or during a design jam. You know, how would Is there anything we haven't, you haven't mentioned yet that you think is important?

Kevin  9:48  
No, I think it's, I think, well, a couple things. I think you need to read the room. Sometimes, I've been in workshops where, you know, the facilitator is, is trying too hard? Hard to, you know, get people to, you know, have fun and be silly and and if you're with a group of people who isn't of that mindset, then better realize that right away, or else they're gonna, they're gonna shut down immediately. Likewise, I've also seen where that's been very valuable, and you can see right away where people, people are responding to that and they're like, Okay, I'm gonna, I'm gonna brush off the regular nine to five work day and, you know, get involved in this little game that you're playing. But, but you really need to know, right? You know soon that, you know some people are gonna respond to this and others aren't. And just kind of watch that body language and make sure that you're, you're speaking the right words to your to the proper audience.

Aaron Faust  10:38  
So great. Thank you so much. I appreciate that problem. How's everything else going? Good so far? Yeah.

