Aaron Faust  0:00  
Let's see it. So would you be willing to walk me through the first 30 minutes of a workshop where onboarding worked really well and what made it effective from your perspective?

Amber  0:18  
So, like a service design

Aaron Faust  0:19  
workshop? Services, sure, service design workshop.

Amber  0:23  
So in my job, I do a lot of workshops around understanding customer perspective. So like at hotels, like guests who stay in hotels, regardless of, like, where we might be going, as far as, like, maybe we're redesigning a hotel room, maybe we're looking at the lobby space or whatever. So usually these are internal workshops, so folks at the headquarters building who are designing the services or making decisions, and so what we're trying to do, like our goal, is to get them onboarded to like what the workshop goals are, what we're trying to accomplish, what comes next, what the steps are that we're usually the like the first workshop, at least, like where we want to be very clear about we're not ideating. We're just trying to like level set, like, where are we at now? So we have done research previously that we're coming into the workshop with that is showing them, like, all of the research we gathered around our current state. So where did where are we now? And we're presenting that to them for a gut check. Does this resonate with you? Is this something that makes sense is, did we, like, hit all of the touch points? Like, because there might be things that we don't know or didn't know to ask, we just sort of, like, want to get, like, okay, like, here is the goal, and here's like, where what we do now take the next steps, and by the end of this, like, this is what we want to accomplish. So I think, like, the workshops that have worked really well is, like, when we have remembered or not gotten sidetracked in beginning to, like, be very clear about that. So here's what we're doing, here's the agenda. Here are the four things we are hoping to accomplish. Here's what we're going to show you, here's what we're expecting feedback from from you. And then here's the goal, like the goal, you know, to come to a place, come to a place of like, an understanding around XYZ, yeah, not problem solve or not solution. So like setting, basically level setting at the beginning,

Aaron Faust  2:26  
actually, to follow up on that first one, what you were saying? What did you do ahead of time to be able to get all the data? Yeah, to level set with people,

Amber  2:35  
we followed this process that we're doing right now. We We tried to understand, like, like, usually, at least the work I do now is we're given sort of a space already, like we're saying, you know, we wanted to redesign the the work corner in the hotel room, yeah. And so we already know, okay, that's it. So then we have to say, like, Okay, who is our audience? Who is impacted by this change? Surprising impacts might be an owner, because they have to send money to redesign the hotel rooms. If we tell them, can I steal your person here for like, Oh, are you? Oh, yeah. So if we're Yeah, so one of the impacts might be the owners, because if we tell them, like, this entire corner needs to be torn out, torn out of every single room that you own in your hotel, and redesign, because we found that, like, it's going to add this much value, like, we have to be able to back that up. So that's a that's a persona that we have to consider. So in in, you know, given we were given our sort of like, here's what we're looking to assess. And so from there, we go into, like, who's impacted, what systems are in place to enable that right now, what we need to change? What Not, not just like systems, as far as like people like housekeeping or builders or maintenance people, yeah, or associates on property, but also like digital systems or alert systems, or like whatever it is, like the guest being unhappy with something like that is a survey that they send us every you know after their stay. Like, that's another system that's involved in, like, gathering feedback. So we have to understand, like, basically, like, the end to end of like, what this experience is currently, in order to then go into a meeting and say, like, hey, we feel pretty confident in that, like, we understand the scope of the problem space, so we've understood, like, the current state, and we're able to then say, like, okay, hey, now that we're in this meeting level setting, we are identifying some gaps that we see in doing our research beforehand that we need you guys to validate with us, rather than just deciding that, like, we've, we've got it all like, it's sort of a validation step for us, like, Hey, we're this is the research we've done. We've talked to all these people on the spectrum of stakeholders. We understand the systems that are in place that supports whatever this, you know, space is, yeah, and we just need this expert so the people who have expertise and like, make sure we get the right people in the room, which is really critical. People. People have expertise in like, like standards, like hotel standards. People who have expertise in, like, digital and associate on property, associates standards, or training, or whatever that is, yeah, you know, owner relationship, so that we have all of the voices in the room say, hey, my owner's gonna push back about this thing if we're asking them to spend money, like, you know, half of their budget for the year just to redesign a corner of the room. You know, this is going to be a problem, so that when we take that next step for solutioning, we have all of these constraints that we understand because we have the right people in the room, so that that's as far as, like, preparation for that meeting, like, getting the right people is critical, and then, and then making sure that we show up with all of the information that is going to get us to the next step, right? Yeah, so

Aaron Faust  5:47  
it sounds like then you're working with a lot of different people from different parts of the of the business, cross functional. And so how do you can you tell me a time when, like, you're in a workshop and people are using the same word, but clearly mean different things, or maybe even using different words, but are have the same meaning. And like, how do you how did that play out? And what's maybe, like a technique that you've seen useful to get everybody on the same page in terms of language and communication?

Amber  6:20  
So we do try. So because of the methodology, service side, methodology, using words like ecosystem, or, you know, even process, or even just like, the word system means something different to everyone. So, like, if you work in digital the system is very different than if you're, like, a hotel. GM, yeah, because that's entirely different system. If you're, you know, if you work in, like, housekeeping, that system is awesome. So, like, just even level setting, like, when we when we say words that mean something in service design, this is what we're referring to. It's, it's been a while in this my current job where I've had to do it because, like, there's enough people that I've that we've gone through this processes. But like my previous job, I actually helped, like, start the service design, like, department in which we had to do a lot of this level setting. Like, what do we mean when we say x? Like, we would start a meeting with like, let me walk you through what service design is, what the process looks like, what we're talking about, and then go into like, Okay, now here's what we're doing in this meeting. Here's what we hope to learn. Here's like, all the things. So it just like, it's sort of like evaluating your audience. Yeah, before in there admittedly been many times where I forget and like, you go into the meeting and then you're just like, why is everyone all of these different places? And you're like, Oh, shit. Like, that's right. Like, I didn't, I didn't establish any of this in the beginning. And so then I have to be like, we need to stop. And we need to, like, figure out, like, where our terms are, what they mean, like, what we're doing next kind of thing. So so

Aaron Faust  7:51  
it sounds like including definitions in the level setting. And even if you forget a piece of that, it's not it's never too late to stop and be like, Hey guys, we need to get

Amber  8:01  
on this. I think, honestly, like this, one of the things I like most about service design is that, like, mistakes are totally like, not a big deal, yeah. Like, because you were like, oh yeah. Like, we're, we're humans talking to humans. Like, it is very, like, human centric, that it's like, oh yeah. Like, I feel totally comfortable being like, oh my god, guys, I totally forgot this. Like, I'm so sorry I messed up, you know, and whether or not people actually are cool with it, I don't even know. Like, I'm just like, I think it's fine, because, like, the service design generates that sort of, like humans or humans like mentality, which I love, but that and then, like, oh, I said something else.

Actually, that's all right. So when I first started, like, getting involved in service line, I this has stuck with me. And like, I actually haven't heard a lot of people say it since, but like, the use of acronyms kills conversations. And so like, I have tried to be better at that in my own work. And like, even when I'm talking to internal folks at Marriott who might know what is, you know, a CRM is, I might still say, like, the customer relationship management platform, like, I might still spell it out because, like, I don't know, and especially in a room like that where everyone thinks that everyone knows, people are less likely to come forward and Be like, actually, could you like or like ITR, which is their intent to recommend. It took me months to figure that out. Yeah, because I was like, I felt like, oh no. Like, if I asked, like, everyone here knows they're gonna be like, Why doesn't she know that? Doesn't she work with hotels? Like, you know, I'm like, Oh no. Like, they're gonna be, why did we hire her? So, like, you know, because it's so, I know other people are having that internal dialog and so, like, that's something that I thought was really cool, like, stuck out to me, like, years ago when I started, like, doing service design is, like, acronyms are not your friends. Like, avoid it. Spell it out every single time. Or even if you're, like, you know the first time it's internet, Integra, intend to recommend, I'm gonna going forward, gonna say ITR and. That's what that means, you know, like, right again, like, as you just like in the regular conversation, like level setting for some of the terms that might be using

Aaron Faust  10:07  
the language, and it sounds like that would apply also, obviously, to, like, jargon or, yes, reference, yeah, it's actually kind of related to, somewhat related to that. Can you tell me about a time when something happened to shift, shift the mindset of the direction that the group was going. And so that could be, for example, like somebody who had been quiet the whole time and all of a sudden spoke up, and it sparked, you know, something. Or, you know, what are those triggers that help kind of make the group realize, hey, we might actually want to go in this direction, instead of how we

Amber  10:47  
work on varies. I'm trying to think of like a concrete example.

So a lot of times like that is like a welcome experience, especially in the beginning. And you're like, I'm just gathering data. Like, recently, I was working on a project where we're trying to figure out the specific type of room that it's, like, very expensive. Like, who books it most is it travel agents that do it for their clients, or people booking like themselves? And we discovered that, like, we made the assumption the beginning, like, it's gonna be travel agents. Because, like, people who have lots of money to spend, like, they don't want to do that, like, you know, the the piddly stuff about, like, the the booking, like, oh, it's gonna be travel agents. And we actually realized from like, the data, that it wasn't, it was 7525 like, people are booking directly. And so we were like, This changes everything. We are not going to focus on, like, talking to more travel agents. We need to talk to more people who are booking, yeah, so like, things like that, but like that sort of is like

Aaron Faust  11:49  
questioning an assumption.

Amber  11:50  
Yeah, it's questioning assumption, but it's, it's also like you, you expect it like you sort of like plan for it. Like, as I learn new things, like, I adjust what I'm asking. If that makes sense. So, I mean, I guess, like, I don't know that I've been in really, any that come to mind that have been, like, we've been down the process where we're like, Okay, we're gonna prototype this thing, and then some big discovery happens. Like, usually you've worked through some of those things in the beginning, which is why, like, it's so important to do the research first, so that down the line, you're not like, oh, wait, we forgot to ask owners if they were going to pay for this. And then we get to like, oh, we need to roll out these standards. And they're like, we're not paying for it, you know. So yeah, is

Aaron Faust  12:33  
there anything else you'd want to share about rethinking how you communicate within a service design jam or a service design workshop process,

Amber  12:43  
mostly like, I think level setting for sure. Like, I think people's natural inclination is to, like, problem solve, oh, my God. Like, that's a problem. I've seen a good solution for it over here, which, like analogous research is really important. Like, how's everyone else doing it? What's out there already for sure, but like, hopping to that problem solving, I think, is always, like, level setting, as far as, like, we're not looking for solutions right now, like, we don't want them, you know, like, we're here, we're back and you know, further that, and then like, like the psychological safety piece, which You can't always control as as the workshop facilitator, but especially in like, more hierarchical organizations, it's it becomes more difficult to have, like good sessions, like workshop sessions, when that does not exist. And so sometimes it's like on the work the facilitator to maybe make smaller groups, or, you know, like, like, do people who are less senior in one session, and then maybe the senior people in another. Like, because, like, there are, there is that, like, hesitation to speak up, or whatever it is. And that's not always possible either. So it's never really perfect. But I think, like, if you can get a situation which, like, people feel psychologically safe, and you have levels that, as far as like, these are the expectations and the outcomes that we hope to like accomplish today. You can it's a pretty good recipe. I'd say,

Aaron Faust  14:14  
great. Well, thank you. Awesome. Really appreciate

Amber  14:18  
it. And then I think, was it they needed?

