Victoria Harrison  0:00  
Okay, this is Preston and Vicky is interviewing Preston at 2:34pm on March 14, regarding how we might improve and rethink communication in the design team working session. The first question I have for you is, will you walk me through the first 30 minutes of the workshop this morning, where onboarding worked really well for you. What made that effective for you this morning,

Preston  0:27  
most of the work was done prior to being here, so signing up registration. So while I arrived, I just had to type in like who I was, and the rest was done for me.

Victoria Harrison  0:39  
Okay, okay, anything else that made you feel comfortable communicating with people you've never met before? The environment is faster. What you know? What else about onboarding worked really well for you today?

Preston  0:52  
Yes, personalities have warm faces at the door, warm faces to greet you, administratively. Hey. Bathrooms. Is this way? Food that way open. Feel free to open yourself, help yourself so that allows me to be more comfortable, to be more inviting when someone else is also being invited.

Victoria Harrison  1:11  
Okay, great, great. Tell me about a time when two people in the workshop were using the same word or words, but they clearly meant something different. How does that play out? Or did you have that experience? If it didn't happen today? Did you ever have an experience like that before, where somebody's saying kind of similar words, but you know, they're kind of coming from a different

Preston  1:33  
angle, and they're saying something different more so in the dealing video, most people saw a brain person saw nerds the candy. Oh, completely different perspective, but makes perfect sense. They're both correct. Okay, what was like the candy nerds?

Victoria Harrison  1:57  
You know, in our group, somebody said it looks like a helmet.

Preston  2:01  
So, yeah, so having multiple people see the same thing and get different outcomes out of it as to how

Victoria Harrison  2:08  
and how did that play out in your conversation, in your group,

Preston  2:11  
knowing that the quest of understanding with the task was multiple ideas could come up, and they all could be running. There's no wrong answer, because perspective is important.

Victoria Harrison  2:26  
Cool, okay, when you try to explain a complex or nuanced idea in a workshop or in a group, what helps you unlock the group? What works versus what falls you

Preston  2:35  
flat, knowing that people's background they can speak the same language is probably

Victoria Harrison  2:43  
the key. Do you find any visual methods more effective than verbal or maybe analogies, metaphors, storytelling, stuff like that? What else do you use to try to explain nuanced ideas?

Preston  2:54  
Storytelling works very well because it takes out ambiguity. Visuals also help, because it doesn't matter how a person learns is 100% correlate to how they person communicate.

Victoria Harrison  3:08  
Okay, good. Think of someone in a workshop who communicated very differently from you, different style, different mode, different pace. How did that affect collaboration of the group?

Preston  3:20  
There was a discussion about celebrities in the opening thing, like, to the

game we played the icebreaker, ah, I just drew a blank. I figure you had to give two things and one inspiring fact. So first one was like, Hey, we should talk about like I hung out with celebrities as being my aspiration. And one person says, you find celebrity, so that is. And everybody thought to themselves, that's a great point. Yeah, yeah. Point, it's assumed a celebrity, someone who's popular on TV or something like that, right? But not necessarily.

Victoria Harrison  4:01  
And how did that affect collaboration in the group?

Preston  4:05  
We did change the term. We did change the terms, in terms of what's considered to be celebrity, so it made us be more explicit on our thoughts.

Victoria Harrison  4:15  
Okay, good. Tell me about a time when someone who was quiet for most of the workshop, how did the members, you know, get that other person to engage and draw them out. That was me

Preston  4:23  
being the first timer. Someone actually came to me like so I know it's the first time, so let me explain. And they one on one, explain the process, and drew me in. So then I became definitely warming my first time. I'm more like technical I'm a technical person to call the wrong answer. There is a wrong answer.

Victoria Harrison  4:46  
Okay, okay, cool. So tell me about a time when something happened to shift the mindset of the direction of the group was going in. How did the team unlock that moment?

Preston  4:58  
I. So one person tried to get their idea across, or what they heard. And I guess it took everyone had to pause and try to relate what that person was saying versus what they thought. So I think that was a typical point, like being able to, like quiet the group down to slow things down.

Victoria Harrison  5:22  
So what was the dynamic of the group before that moment, and what made it safer possible for that person to speak?

Preston  5:32  
It was trust. We trust that everyone has an engaging thought. It's just a matter of, can you do it in a way that doesn't offend anybody else? Like, don't cut somebody else off. Like, be patient, wait your turn, go in a kind of clockwise manner. Like, that's what we did. We actually ended up going into climbing clockwise weather. If not, it was people raising their hand, or someone will start talking to us without talking, and might not potentially on purpose, it was just yeah, something to say. Like, all right, how about this? I think we just went,

Victoria Harrison  6:01  
Yeah, okay, good, good. And is there anything else you wanted to share with how you suggest rethinking communication in our service design jam session, like, how could we rethink the way that we communicate?

Preston  6:12  
Oh, example, some different effective communication, an example of what has worked in the past on prior jams, and keep that in mind for future jams, especially people that are new. I think it is important that the context of the jam is understood before going into sessions. Great, but it cool. Thank you.

