Victoria Harrison  0:01  
This interview is with T and my name is Vicki. It is March 14 at 2:20pm and we are going to discuss the problem statement of, how might we rethink human communication in a design team working session, the first question here walk me through the first 30 minutes of our workshop today, this morning for the onboarding. You know what worked really well? What was effective for you on onboarding this morning,

Ti  0:27  
getting breakfast and get ready on my table. Yeah, so it was organic transition.

Everybody knows what time starts and grabbing their breakfast and going to their table.

Victoria Harrison  0:48  
Okay, good. So tell me at a time during this so so far today, when two people were in a workshop, we're using the same word, but they were kind of meaning different things. You're using the same as we have everywhere. But maybe if something just meant different things to do different people, how did that play out for you? Even if it didn't happen today? If you can think of another example of a time,

Ti  1:12  
it's confusing, of course, but I asked follow up question to have a clarification.

Victoria Harrison  1:23  
And so what did that situation cost the group in terms of time or trust? Was there friction there?

Ti  1:30  
Or sometimes it might have a friction, but sometimes it might take little time to explain. Yeah, okay.

Victoria Harrison  1:43  
When you try to explain a complex or nuanced idea in a workshop, what helps you unlock the group, what works and what falls, you know what works to help you unlock a situation.

Ti  1:54  
So if someone talk about the idea previously, I will chip in, like bring that idea again and to give to two states a strong opinion about that. That is already the idea as discussed. If it is new idea, I will try to give examples to explain

Victoria Harrison  2:20  
that idea much. So what do you do when you sense that the group isn't quite following you? You know you're you're you're talking and you're trying to explain yourself, but you sense that the group doesn't quite follow you, what do you do?

Ti  2:33  
I'll ask them again, like, does everyone understand what I'm saying, or is it clear? Or is there any questions about it?

Victoria Harrison  2:43  
Okay, think about someone in your workshop who communicated really differently from you, a different style, different mode, different pace. How did that affect collaboration in the team, and how was that handled?

Ti  2:58  
I don't, I don't see it as an effect, rather than I need to adjust how their conversation would be. So since it's the design meeting and collaboration, I always think that that person has something to put like something special to bring on the table. So I will be patient and try to ask questions.

Victoria Harrison  3:28  
What would have make it easier to bridge the gap? If anything you think of, anything that would make it easier to bridge that gap when someone has a completely different communication style, a different pace and so on, what helps bridge the gap?

Ti  3:40  
Being friendly, okay, being open minded, and just try to the other person to be themselves.

Victoria Harrison  3:52  
Okay, tell me about a time when someone was really quiet for most of the working session. How did you get other members of the group to help that person engage?

Ti  4:07  
I will, if I am a team leader, I will encourage my team to give opportunity for the people who did not fit anything

Victoria Harrison  4:21  
what creates the conditions to really encourage or pull that other person into the conversation? What? What needs to happen in the team dynamics for that person to want to speak up,

Ti  4:34  
the whole team needs to understand that everyone has a value in that table, so be open minded. Okay?

Victoria Harrison  4:44  
And tell me about a time when something happened in your conversations that shifted the mindset of the direction that the jerk that the group was going. How did you unlock that moment? Oh, that's

Ti  4:58  
a question paid again. Yeah.

Victoria Harrison  5:01  
Tell me about a time when something happened to shift the mindset of the direction of your group and the direction of your conversation. How did your team unlock that moment? What was the group dynamic at that time?

Ti  5:16  
Like I told you, it's about the whole this conversation is about the team lead. It depends on the team lead. If the team lead has very open minded and I believe that every team has special value that brings on the table that will change the environment.

Victoria Harrison  5:36  
So did you assign a team lead to your group this morning, when you were getting into teams. Did you decide who'd be in the team lead?

Ti  5:45  
We didn't happen. But naturally happened,

Victoria Harrison  5:48  
okay, and who is are you the team lead?

Ti  5:51  
No, the other person, the other person who is experiencing in this job, yeah. But lastly, all the team member were very collaborative and support that that person. So even though we think that she has more experience, but we also it's a part of it, okay?

Victoria Harrison  6:13  
And yeah, so is there anything else that you can share about how you would suggest rethinking communication in our service design jam, rethinking the way that we've structured the or the opportunity today, or restructured, or rethinking the way that your team talks to each other and in a group, anything else you can think of that you want

Ti  6:39  
to share, Though all the old thing, I think of is to have more coach, right? You know, because all of us are here to learn something, so in some ways, somehow we feel like we don't have enough knowledge. So having having that coach, or that person who is more experienced,

Victoria Harrison  7:03  
so more coaching. Yes, more coaching. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you.

