Claudia Fetter  0:02  
So if you were to say what attributes of like a really successful opening to a session that you felt really helped the group feel comfortable communicating, what would that be?

Sergio  0:12  
And this is in the context of facilitating in a design. Yeah, that some of it is equalizing the voices in the room. And by that, something that could be, at least, my experience, has been successful, is the silent moments that start because you don't allow, like, the first voices to dominate the room, or so, you're kind of equalized in the room by allowing everybody to put their ideas down. And the reason why we tend to equate communication with like speaking, and that's not necessarily the case where it's like communication is, let's put the ideas down. Let's make sure that everybody in the room has an opportunity to express whatever. So I'll say that that, at least for me, has been always

Claudia Fetter  1:02  
key, right? Yeah. And then how about even in the beginning, like, if you start the day, right? Or, like, whatever time box, you know, we're spending the afternoon signing together, that initial piece that, like, opens up that session. Do you feel like that makes a difference in terms

Sergio  1:21  
of it does is it like, sent, like, sometimes group rules or ground rules, or when you're like, introduced, like, what to expect in a session, how to engage with it, how communicate with one another. It's at this stage you have to remind people all the time, though, like, but it's always good to create the conditions, I'll say, at least make it inviting. Am I allowed to even raise my hand? Am I allowed to, you know, share what I want to know? If nobody says anything, if it's implicit, most likely it doesn't happen. So you have to make it really explicit. What are the rules of the room communication?

Claudia Fetter  2:02  
That's when you had like two people in a workshop, were you realizing that you're using the same word in different ways and that, how did that play out?

Sergio  2:14  
Many times the and this happens at work every day for me, not every day. Usually you start hearing people either saying, speaking on top of each other, like a little bit like back and forth, but at the end of the day, there is because they're getting at the same concept, or whatever it is, that, for me, is a signal that like, oh, it might sound like a disagreement, or it might sound like, Here they're just arguing. Sometimes it is. It's really opposing, opposing, like, comments or concepts. But most of the time it's like, oh, they're just disagree or disagreeing because they sort of, they own the same meaning behind it, and they just haven't seen it or haven't not expressed it. For me, that's like, a red flag, not a red flag, but like, Well, I started noticing when people are kind of really passionate about, like, what the other person is saying, speaking over them. Yeah. So that's what I noticed. Then what I usually do is either ask them to in violate, what? Oh, when you say x, what do you mean by that? Hey, other person, is that? What you mean by x, y and z? And usually they get to like, oh, yeah, yes. But this other angle a little bit different,

Claudia Fetter  3:36  
yeah, yeah. Do you feel like there are times where the group can self identify when that's happening.

Sergio  3:45  
Maybe I think the group, yeah, when I've seen it happen, the group, no source, everybody since it what is difficult is, how do you resolve it, right?

Claudia Fetter  3:57  
Yeah, in terms of, like, yes, what have you seen that's gotten the group to, like, self resolve?

Sergio  4:05  
Yeah, because the group, and you can see this a lot, there are meetings where people know we're talking on top of each other, or we're not getting to an alignment, famous word, alignment. But then you see them struggling to come to a consensus, or, like, a way, usually, like, if you have a facilitator, which is sometimes my role, you'd be like, Okay, let's put a board, or let's open the document and like, this is what you mean. This is what you mean. Like you're staring at it. Like, visualize the thinking. So a facilitator can do that without it. Sometimes they get to it, somebody will put something in the chat, and then they start visualizing their thinking or, like expressing in a different way, but not all the time. They sometimes lack the frameworks or the know how to unlock, but they, for sure, know it like I've been. Many minutes when people are like, yeah, they know there's

Claudia Fetter  5:03  
a problem, but it's much harder to resolve. Yeah,

Sergio  5:05  
exactly. How

Claudia Fetter  5:07  
about when there's, like, an idea that's particularly complex or nuanced, right? And so how do we help, like, unlock the group, like, what works, what falls flat? Like, how do you kind of find a way or how to kind of get clarity right to kind of, or to be able to make sure that there's kind of a shared understanding of what that complex idea or concept is.

Sergio  5:35  
Maybe because we're and I'm like visual person designer, I tend to gravitate to visualize, and visualizing in a way that is, like boxes and arrows might be as simple as that. Like, put together some boxes and say you're making these connections to maybe more complex visuals of like, oh, you know, we're talking about a prototype, particularly, or like, a product or something you want to bring like, Oh, this is what you mean by X, Y and Z and and people to agree or disagree on it. But visualizing the thinking is what, for me, a list is successful.

Claudia Fetter  6:14  
Have you seen anything else that works in terms of

Sergio  6:18  
collect, sharing? Yeah, complex. A complex problem, or complex space idea,

Claudia Fetter  6:26  
or there's like, there's nuance that matters. You know, things where it's like, they feel like they're, I know, I've been to conference students, for example, where, like, it's not like this, you know, like it's like one panel, and you're like, okay, my instinct is to grab a marker and no place to go. So, like, thoughts in terms of, like, Are there alternative options? It'll be

Sergio  6:51  
interesting to explore, to your point, because not, not everybody has also the

maybe this is I'm just thinking out loud here, but it's like for me, visuals work. I imagine for many people, they might not have the instinct to go into a visual. So even visuals might be complex to other,

Claudia Fetter  7:17  
like it's versus notional, and that's why

Sergio  7:22  
it's so some people react really well to written descriptions of them, like, where I might be, like, this box and this and this represents a concept other person maybe, like, it's a box that has an x in the corner that has so it kind of like leaves the interpretation on the side, which is the complexity of visuals. You can draw something by somebody else. That's a car, no, that's a boat, no, that's plane, right? When it's in written form, at least the complex the interpretation is out, you know, it's explicit interpretation, yeah, how

Claudia Fetter  8:03  
about, if you think about someone in a workshop that's, like, really kind of communicated very differently. So maybe it's their style, the mode, the types of words, the case, like, you know, like they're they're kind of an anomaly, like how the rest of the group works, or like communicates, at least. How do you How did you see that like affect the collaboration?

Sergio  8:28  
It's interesting, like, the their

Claudia Fetter  8:31  
moments of friction, or, like, maybe not. Or how is it handled? Like, you know, certain unexpected moments happen.

Sergio  8:37  
Yeah, I've seen it where, like, it's not about like, the way they communicate, but the power dynamics in the room really matter. And not knowing them also kind of like matter, because you might take something for like as an assertion, whether you because everybody's like, agreeing to it, but they're agreeing because the VP says something right? So it's like, there's a power dynamic in the room. It's not being resolved, but so again, it's not a communication style. It's more like a to your point before. So like, something that is affecting the communication because other factors in the room I haven't experienced, like difficult communication style yet,

Claudia Fetter  9:25  
and maybe even something I'll say, like, language, right? Like, especially if English isn't your first language, or something like that, where or, or I know, like, kind of culturally, sometimes people come into a very different way of kind of engaging, right? So just changes the

Sergio  9:43  
that's, that's what, that's where I was going, or what I was thinking is more like when, when you ask the question. I initially thought, oh, maybe the communication was challenging, but it's not like the communication, to your point, could be the background, it could be the language, it could be the even the understanding of it. If you're speaking to like, let's say. Highly specialized scientist about one topic and the other person doesn't have the knowledge, or is like, then there is a conflict that needs to be understood language. I've seen it well, one myself. I'm like, second, you know, English, English a second language. But at work, I've seen people who struggle even more to communicate, and then it can be frustrating for the others in the in the room. What is this person trying to say or like? Why is that person not getting to the point? Because maybe their communication is less direct than what you expected or what you see in the US, right?

Claudia Fetter  10:37  
So that definitely matters thoughts in terms of like, what you've seen

Sergio  10:46  
that helps mitigate that? Well, what I've seen in in these cases, it's usually not in the moment. I've seen it be like pre reads. If you know you're gonna express a difficult topic, you might send something ahead of time, so that people have the time to internalize and read. But I also have seen it like post, let's say you leave the meeting without understanding, or I've seen people being like, Hey, this is what I meant. And then their communication that continues and like an email or continues somewhere until the clarity. So it's like moving from, like, verbal to in writing to other types of communication,

Claudia Fetter  11:29  
anytime when you had someone who's like, really quiet, you know, like in a workshop or session, and then was there any thing that the group did to get them to engage,

Sergio  11:45  
many things, many times. I think the most successful I mentioned this at the beginning, sort of like, given having an equalizer in the room, like almost quieting the loud voices, tends to help. Giving people avenues of communicating, meaning like verbal is not only that, you can have a chat. I'm thinking of zoom at this moment you have a chat so there are conversations happening and people have like avenues to communicate. That's another one.

Claudia Fetter  12:20  
Yeah, maybe letting them draw on, like them draw,

Sergio  12:25  
letting them draw, express, yeah, I would just think there are moments where people are just very shy, and even with those, like those moments, it doesn't click, or it doesn't help, and maybe that's the extremes, but those are, like, in my case, I lead teams. I'm like, How can I get a person to just kind of move past that? There are fears. There are kind of, what if I'm gonna What if what I say is interpreting, like, I don't know the topic, or whatever you know, like, there are a lot of those more intrinsic barriers to communication that are probably the most challenging to see, because they require self awareness. They require like that person to first be self aware that like, Oh, this is a chat this. This is going to impact my my work, because I really need to communicate. So they need to be self aware. And they need to be able to know, okay, what do I what I do in this moment, right? So that's probably the extreme. And I have people in my team who are super introverts, great designers. And to your point, what is like? What they do is they tend to just go with images before or in order, kind of, Oh, yeah. They try to speak without speaking a lot, right?

Claudia Fetter  13:41  
Yeah. Well, part of how do we make sure that their perspective or insights get folded into a larger group, right? Because it's a missed opportunity, potentially right for everybody, and so, yeah, like framing or reframing what's at stake, and

Sergio  14:02  
it depends on the intent of the session, right? Like you may want to, I'm thinking just what I've seen. There are moments in a project or whatever, where you need to make decisions, of course, and those are going to fall into the decision makers, the ones, again, going back to the power, who has the power? And it's because they, they are the ones ultimate responsible for that decision. Or you cannot do that. There are moments to your point where, like, what we need is to have quote, unquote, alignment as a group. And in those moments, if we only let the loud voices, then the alignment didn't really happen. It just kind of, we're just replicating whatever the two people in the room that dominated the conversation were saying, and that's where I could see the value of like, if we could just bring the perspectives in, in a way, then that feels organic, but that is exactly but represents the

kind of group knowledge every. All the group perspectives. Yeah, I

don't know how that might happen, but I can see it happen sometimes in like, when you're in person, Zoom makes it difficult, to be quite honest, because people hide behind, like, turning the camera off. In person, you tend to see like, where somebody is kind of, like, on the side, like, makes it more, yeah, easy to spot, but yeah, about

Claudia Fetter  15:28  
his time when there something happened that really, like, shifted the mindset or the direction, and like, what really unlocked the team in that moment, seeing, like, what kind of made the difference, or what was the trigger? Or, kind of like, what enables that? Like, aha, kind of like, where are the communications? How is the group dynamic communications changing in that moment?

Sergio  15:54  
I'm trying not to repeat myself, because my first instinct is going back to the same I've seen it happen where, like, when you visualize something and be worried, no, oh yeah, what you were thinking and what I was saying are not the same thing, right? So that's the first, like, sometimes, like, a good, a half, like, Okay, we need to go back and try to get to the basic understanding, because we're not looking at it from the same angle, but that's my immediate thought. There might be more like other techniques and things that you could do to make that hat more explicit, but I don't know. Is there anything that

Claudia Fetter  16:35  
maybe makes it safe or possible for people to kind of kind of stick their neck out and sort of go in a totally different direction.

Sergio  16:48  
Yeah. I mean, it comes back to, what are the conditions right that you set up from, like, the expectations, the written and unwritten rules of the team? Like, are people, are people incentivized to speak out or not like? Or are they like when they speak out, somebody make fun of them, and then it's the opposite, right? So explicit and implicit rules.

Claudia Fetter  17:11  
How may you say a little bit of that? Because I think it's easy. The ground rules are usually explicit ones. We respect it, like all that kind of fun. What about the implicit rules? Like, are establishing them, or kind of are normally on those, yeah.

Sergio  17:24  
And those, those become with time, like, I'm just thinking in the context of a team, and the team might be, like, implicitly, to my point, before it's like, oh, somebody said something, and all of the sudden there's a Slack channel, or, like, Slack thread, like, Oh, haha, making fun of that person and or saying things that might not feel good immediately, there is a Hey. Even if we say, please speak up, whatever, there's an implicit incentive not to not do it.

Claudia Fetter  17:52  
So are you saying that, even like, is that also the group establishing safety because they're self

Sergio  17:58  
regulating themselves? Yeah, and the norms, whether you so, the thing about this is, like, you can build them explicitly, and people cannot follow them, or can follow them, or you cannot build them, and they're gonna exist. Like there are norms in teams and groups all the time. And I think what's challenging is you're not, not always they're not always explicit. So you're not always aware of what's happening in that room, in that team, in that dynamic, right?

Claudia Fetter  18:27  
So we're trying to dig into where, how do you make the implicit effective, to kind of facilitate a different dynamic than what we might typically be experiencing, unlike an unlock the power of the collective.

Sergio  18:43  
Yeah, that could be super interesting when, like, when the machines, at least in our work, starts really knowing our context, and when we sort of, like, how we operate and how we work, could there be indicators of, like, a room being like, Oh, this room is open for x, y and z. So, like, there's, we have an explicit understanding, versus, like, somebody joins the room and being like, That person doesn't really work the same way. So you're like, Yeah, visualizing that. That could be

Claudia Fetter  19:14  
very interesting. Anything else, like, in the process of like,

you know, just the questions trigger anything that we didn't sound

Sergio  19:29  
about communication. No, I'll probably see Yeah, I probably stick with the same of like,

the in my view, the most difficult part is the self awareness that kind of like what each individual need to do in order to kind of be open to norms and groups and all of that like that. That is a bit challenging. So if

Claudia Fetter  19:55  
you can't teach that, yeah, how do we facilitate that in level? In a design session, I guess is what we're getting at, right? There's so many different backgrounds, skill sets, experiences, biases, right? Like, how do you sort of surface or kind of or get to some sort of level set understanding your field? How do we accommodate for those different things?

Sergio  20:17  
And it may be, again, it's sort of like, to your point, I think you can. You cannot teach it, but you can, in the same way that you feel like you, create norms around how you interact. You could eventually, with small interventions, make it so that people self regulate groups, model like behaviors and others. But it comes from like the group needs to know that, oh, oh, we're moving like at this moment, we feel very biased towards x, y and z, and because we usually don't make those realizations, we continue the conversation like nobody agrees to anything, right? So it's maybe like a small interventions throughout, let's say, a conversation, and kind of you're almost temperature checking yourself as a group, and then self regulated. Oh, we're being less inclusive. Let's be more inclusive bias. Let's be more like, there is this like language barrier being, how do we cross that so that let's allow more time for that person, because the idea is there, or, you know, kind of like, accommodation, yeah, even the simplest fact of like, you go in the meeting, even if it's an alignment meeting, and let's say you could have, like, only 1% 2% of the people have spoken, and 30% of the time, you could maybe go start thinking, like, does it mean like, 98% of the rest agree? Or No, right? Like, can we ask them? Like, do you agree? And then you get a oh yeah, everybody agrees. And then you're, at least have an indicator that you're moving through like, alignment, right? Today, you don't have that even in person, would be hard. Important. Like, you get a quick like, oh, everybody's saying this or doing like, oh yeah, kind of like, generally, but in zoom as well. Nobody might be saying, or camera off.

Claudia Fetter  22:08  
What do you think in terms of like, particularly applied to like, service design? Or just, are these

Sergio  22:18  
more universals? It's, I mean, I have found myself facilitating, maybe because I gravitate towards that. That's what I tend to be doing all the time in my my personal view is that, yes, service design is about creating services and designing solving a problem. In my 10 or more years of experience, the value that I bring to the table tends to be in those in the room, in the conversation, in the like, oh, blueprint is only valuable because it got X person and X person to agree that this was a problem and then that we walked away with That kind of general agreement, right? Like that, versus always a beautiful artifact, right? So I think it's very relevant. And I don't know if it's only a design thing, but it's more of if we all had the skill to do that, I think imagine it'll be conversations will move faster. Maybe decisions will move faster, or even not possibly, let's say, like, more efficient or more transparent putting your energy, because at the end, it's not about like, oh, we just be efficient and go through this fast. It's about like, maybe we just need transparency, and it's okay we don't agree, but at least we walk away knowing that we don't agree, versus we walk away thinking that we agree and nobody has really agreed to right? Then you're like, swirl, yeah. We check the box, yeah. So, but it is, I think it's fully relevant to to what we do. It's almost like we could have, like, a temperature check constantly in the room and adapt to it, and, like, self regulate us as facilitators, with the room as participants. It'd be really, really interesting. Even, like, you think something like today, where you have somebody presenting and being there, might be knowledge in the group that, of course, it's difficult to either, you give everybody a mic and have them, but it could be really cool if there is like, a way in which, like, we're bringing what people know in the room and what facilitator presenter is saying, and kind visualizing that as we go, that

Claudia Fetter  24:34  
could be super interesting. Of that all that value,

Sergio  24:39  
so the value is collected Exactly. And so like, like, the room is participating, like, as a collective versus just a few, yeah, and what I could do in the design setting, right? Let's say you're presenting then, and you're all of the sudden seeing like. Of reactions and feedback, sort of in real time. Are we closer to agreement versus this? And we really under every bias and towards an area versus another?

Claudia Fetter  25:10  
You say that, like some of that is just really towards, I mean, all this drives towards creating safety, basically trust. You can say and talk and share, and it's going to be integrated in some way into how people are approaching the problem? Will it maybe drive this end state? No, you could

Sergio  25:27  
have, like, a lot of trust and safety, let's say, but if you don't have the way to visualize, like a collective thinking, then, like, nothing really happened. I think it's Yeah, both safety, trust, kind of like the self awareness that I mentioned before, which is more individual, the others are more like in the conditions they need to be there. And the third is you will need a technology, or a thing that helps us almost participate without interfering, so like what's happening you Yeah, so it's

Claudia Fetter  26:04  
funny, because I think there's, there's self awareness, you know, in terms of how I show up in a group and engage, and then sometimes even self awareness in terms of, like, biases or other type of perspectives that are that are maybe shaping what I see or don't see, right? And it's like two things that are happening at the same. Happening at the same time. Yeah, right. And so I might be self aware in one way dimension, but not another. And so it's changing, like, group dynamic, right? So how do we, like, create safety in the absence of one of those showing up?

Sergio  26:34  
And I think group dynamics is interesting because it's like, what could be interesting is, what do you what do you drive towards? Could be dangerous if you say, like, we're always driving towards efficiency and alignment. What I was saying not all the time. Sometimes you just need people to be in the room. It's a complex problem, complex idea. All we need is initial understanding, or like that we can, like, walk away with an understanding of what we're dealing with, versus full alignment that I agree with that's the solution or the thing to do. So yeah, like, the intent when you want to look at the focus drive, so that, right, we don't

Claudia Fetter  27:19  
feel like we have to be over here when we're not the process.

Sergio  27:24  
We're not like, put out a solution that always steers to be like, Oh yeah, it's an alignment tool, communication. Have different intent depends in the context, and it kind of regulates against that, yeah, it's cool. I'm excited. I.

